what's up everybody and welcome to
today's episode of learning from the
pros you guys are in for a treat today's
guest is going to be sharing his tips on
thought leader ads and how to make them
work for your SAS company Jonathan bland
is joining me today he is the co-founder
of omnilab they are a demand gen Agency
for series a to c B2B SAS startups and
he is a LinkedIn legend himself with all
this great content on ads and Sass so
Jonathan welcome appreciate that man
yeah lovely lovely intro it's all said
so why do we uh why don't we kick off
just a quick uh like intro on yourself
and uh your background around LinkedIn
thought leadership ads and like kind of
your experience around ads in
general uh my background is kind of
interesting to guys get the quick
highlight reel I actually started in
sales I was uh selling security software
to the US government for a while and
then I moved into business intelligence
worked for a number of different SAS
companies and then I got into early
stage SAS and I think any that's in
early state slash always gets this I
mean you've been there with metadata
you've got a title your title doesn't
mean a whole lot you're always doing
like a thousand things to Sunday and so
that was kind of me and I was jumping I
think I worked at three or four uh SAS
startups inous and you know what looked
like sales rules but we were doing
everything and so I was doing stuff with
Google ads I was calling people from an
SDR perspective I was writing workflows
and HubSpot to make sure that our email
nurtures were working properly and
everything else in between
and so anyway little by little fast
forward you know some years forward we
started Omni lab and now been just doing
paid ad creative conversion tracking
analytics so nice yeah and you guys are
working with some awesome Brands like so
you guys are doing some great stuff like
looking here you guys are working with
like drada turtle like some really
awesome companies and uh you guys take a
unique approach in terms of like more
demand gen then traditional Le gen and
and so on and so forth yeah I think
those terms are getting so murky I think
you'd probably agree too I mean um I
think there's there's so much divide
right now between those but I think the
way that we always think about it is is
there's always a balance between
short-term uh and long-term types of
campaigns and so I think that most
agencies or or certainly many have very
much a short-term kind of focus and even
marketing teams to a degree too given
the pressure they have from VCS or the
CEO to deliver results today now we need
it put the $100 gift card on everything
go run a bunch of Google ads go do
whatever and so this sort of thing
happens all time but I think it's so
important I know you would agree with
this is that there's so many people that
are still out of Market that have no
clue what we do how we do it and we have
not made ourselves uh differentiated in
the minds of the customers with aligning
with some of the key buying triggers
where the academic term would be
category entry points and so I think we
need to kind of sometimes take a step
back and say wait a minute like we can't
have all of our ads geared towards
bottom of the funnel type activities
sometimes we need to take a step back
and say all right well let's just
educate the market on exactly what we do
and how we do it first so that when they
do have a need and they do pull
themselves in market then they're
thinking about us and so I think that's
been kind of the basis of how we think
about things and of course you know for
your bottom of the funnel direct
response campaigns huge focus on
Pipeline Revenue you know obviously
quality leads whatever lead is for you
in terms of definition because everyone
defines it differently and making sure
that you know if we've got you know
keyword that's performing really well
CPA is low and we're getting a lot of
conversions that ultimately we're like
hey cool yeah let's spend another
$100,000 on that no no no no let's
actually go into the CRM and understand
wait a minute none of these are actually
progressing along the funnel none of
them have moved into SQL sales team is
bitching about them you know and so we
just want to avoid those types of things
and your more direct response type of
campaigns but yeah 100% 100% and now
there's been this emergence in the
LinkedIn world with thought leader ads
where it's this really unique ad format
that you can apply it in so many
different ways and there's so much buzz
on thought leadership ads from people
like yourself me other folks in the
space that are like talking about like
the results they've seen so now it's I
think there's a lot of misunderstandings
around thought leadership ads and and
how to kind of maximize its utility and
where it fits along somebody's paid
media strategy so why don't you kick us
off with your first tip for somebody to
actually uh get success with thought
leader ads well I think the first tip
has to be what are they and let's make
sure that everyone's on the same page
there I think nearly every everyone has
heard of thought leader ads certainly
not everyone's running them though but
they're really just sponsored organic
posts that's it nice and simple and uh
you now have the ability to also do
employee based sponsorship as well as
non-employee which is really powerful
from an influencer perspective or
Partners or VCS Uh current customers can
now write things about you and you can
take those posts and promote them
directly to your audience so I think the
biggest thing is that what's really
change is that you know for a while
organic linkedin's been huge for a while
for a lot of people at least that are in
that world although I think it's a still
a very small community I'm sure you
would agree but now we've got the
ability to say hey wait a minute we used
to be at the helm of waiting for the
algorithm to get us in front of the
righted audience now we can actually
control that and say hey let's make sure
that that organic posst it already has a
really good engagement rate we're
getting the right people engaging with
our post let's now get that in front of
the exact right people we want to hit
and so you might have a Target account
list or you might have firmographic ICP
criteria that's built into that but the
goal is to say great now we can take
that organic post and make sure it's
guaranteed so we're not just getting a
bunch of Freelancers consultants and
people like you and me that I think are
a lot more active sometimes on LinkedIn
than you know your regular
ICP yeah totally one thing I I find
myself often reminding people is like
thought leader ads are an ad format they
are not a strategy exactly yeah totally
you know and and it's it's insane how
like there's so much like you mentioned
ear like language is getting murky and
like people are
losing between the lines and all this
stuff and it's it's essentially that
right so it's you're taking a post that
already exists from someone right and
then you are promoting it and you're
guaranteeing distribution against that
post which has the benefit of being
native to the platform and to your point
on that I mean yeah it's an ad format
it's 100% not a strategy it's still
funny to me though that so often I'll
talk with um you know the VP of
marketing or head of demand gen it's
like what's your marketing strategy well
let me walk you through we do Google ads
cold email and uh pick it another
Channel and it's like okay that's great
those are awesome channels but what's
the strategy behind it right and I think
that even bubbles up more towards
targeting positioning messaging um
segmentation like those types of things
are really kind of like front of mind to
me for like what the question really
should be is we need to answer those
types of things and then the you know
the format thought leader ad will come
in um the next thing to kind of think
about too that I think a lot of people
is just a general tip I need to consider
with all leader ads is we don't want to
have anything that's too far away from
the core product and so the thought
leader AD should really focus on doesn't
have to be a Pitch and it doesn't have
to be end with get a demo but it needs
to have a core dotted line back to the
product and so that could be a situation
where you know at Omni laab maybe I'm
expressing The Narrative or our general
POV on the way to run Google ads and the
reason I would talk about that and not
put get a demo or do anything else is
because then people know at least where
we stand or where I stand on how to run
Google ads
X way and you may agree with it or you
may disagree with it doesn't matter the
point is is that I've put my foot in the
sand and said hey cool this is what I'm
going to do and so I think that's where
we need to make sure that all content
anytime we write something in terms of
post the content that we actually
promote is the stuff that has a core
dotted line back to the product not the
stuff that's like the fluffy I don't
know I got a new job or I ate this or
here's a selfie of me at the beach or
anything related to that I think
everyone probably gets that right but um
but that's a that's a big thing tell
myself there real quick that is my God I
wish I had like a stream board that I
could like do emojis in real time to to
things people say that is such a big one
I can't tell you the amount of accounts
and that I've been like looking at where
they've been running ungated content for
the last six months and their pipeline
has been like on a negative decline for
the P like it's just from the moment
they made the shift you know you just
see a a negative correlation and often
times it's not because the strategy is
lot it's because the the inputs are
wrong and all the content that they're
promoting has no connection to the core
product yeah you know so it's like it's
like the classic example of like uh they
might they might love you which is
better than you know you're creating all
this content and it doesn't resonate and
you're not building that Affinity but at
the very minimum it's like they they
love you and they're like oh I love that
brand but they actually don't know
really what you do like for example I
know the folks that cognism well and I
know they struggle with this early on
where like they created such a brand and
like a movement and everyone like really
loves their content but then they didn't
really know the data sources that they
provide and like how they provide this
high quality data and there was like
that disconnect and like fast forward to
today they've you know they've they've
solved that but that was like a classic
example of that totally and I think the
other thing to say just to add to that
is that um so dotted line back to the
product but I mean the content like any
piece of content should deliver value
now what is value value is defined by
each person differently right like for
you like you've been doing paid ads for
a while if I wrote a post on these are
the two bid strategies for LinkedIn
you'd be like duh man I've been doing
this for years and so you probably
wouldn't find that POS that valuable and
so I think the thing is is that we need
to make sure that when we're writing
we're writing something that ideally
applies to a large group of people that
are going to get some good value from it
not necessarily to the 5% you might be
in that you know kind of upper echelon
of people that already know paid really
well and so that means that we want to
think about content that we might even
charge for is an easy way to kind of
think about this you know and if I think
of hey what's something I could do for
example I did this with um Revenue hero
the other day I just picked them out of
complet completely random and uh picked
Revenue here and decided to just put
together some thoughts on the keywords
that I would put together for a handful
of non-brand campaigns and a competitor
campaign and I put that in a visual and
then I wrote a post about it on how I'd
kind of organize the campaign what the
structure would look like Etc that's
something that someone in most cases
will pay an agency to do is to come up
with at least you know a bigger portion
of that clearly right but I just gave it
away and said hey here you go like take
a look it's not a complete plan and by
the way I have an audit of your account
I don't know all the context but here's
how I think about it and so that's a
Services example but you can do this
type of thing with all sorts of B2B siiz
companies doesn't have to be a Services
type example and so it could be
something related to calling out a
company like inter let's use interactive
demos like Natalie at nadic she could
literally go in and say hey cool for
cognism I'm going to go build out a
little easy interactive demo by just
looking at their website and she might
go through their website and create a
tour off their website because maybe she
doesn't have access to the actual
product and she could really create that
like look how easy this is like if you
wanted to give someone a really cool
walkthrough it's as easy as this here's
a screenshot here's a couple of notes so
on and so forth and she could post that
out and they could do that at scale with
key Target accounts so anyway I st
myself there but I mean a huge thing
with um just thinking about like the
type of content you're you're creating
this is this is a big one just to like
triple click on this because the the
Trap that I'm seeing people fall into is
they're like you know it's like the
Spider-Man reference with great power
comes great responsibility like now they
have this great power that they can take
these posts that are from a individual
at their company or a customer like
there's different ways you but you can
take an organic post from an individual
and you've been given this great power
and then they're just kind of like going
crazy and they're just promoting what
whatever they have and they're not being
intentional about what is actually being
offered in that post so to your point if
you know it's like you've been G you've
been given this great ability this great
power that's like still such untapped
opportunity but don't delude yourself
like the same principles still apply
here and you should frame yourself I
love how you framed it create content
people are willing to pay for right that
that you can charge them for in the
example you did with Revenue or novatic
with the interactive demos and it's
amazing how just getting creative on the
offer can go so far like that's
something that we're seeing consistently
across the board like in paid media in
2024 and Beyond we're seeing that
optimizing at the channel level and like
the channel tactics are becoming more
and more less effective in terms of
return on effort and we're finding much
more gains when we spend time actually
thinking about the offer that we're
presenting in the first place like one
small tactical thing to add on to what
you're saying to make your offers more
appealing so like something people would
charge for is like think about the
offers you've already created in the
past and can you bundle them together in
a certain way and then give them away
it'll increase to perceive value and
just dramatically improve the response
rates the engagement rates conversion
rates whatever the thing might be and
you know obviously like get more bang
for your buck yeah I mean it always
comes back to the content the end of the
day you could you could turn every
single dial inside LinkedIn or whatever
their Channel we're talking about if the
content is not good or the messaging is
not clear and succinct and aligns with
what the audience is looking for it does
not matter what you do you're out of
options so I always like to look at some
point if we got targeting right our
general setup and settings are are
generally set up the right way based on
best practices we really need to go to
your point about offer content messaging
move to those things because those are
going to be the bigger swinging things
things that really get either better
engagement CTR convers whatever the goal
is for the campaign mhm yeah 100% so
moving on to the next tip I've got here
tip number four so far
um what do you have anything planned
yeah so I've got so I've got another one
for you so here here's another one that
I think commonly I don't know if we call
this four I'll kind of keep this one
simple so we can get to get to 10 here
but adding a premium CTA at the top of
your headline so you can just go into
your profile at a CA and the reason you
do that is it just gives people a clear
way to get back to somewhere right
whether that be your website or signing
up for a newsletter or I forget all the
other ctas to be honest I use view my
newsletter sign up from my newsletter
whatever the CTA says because you know
I'm just trying to build continue to
build my own audience outside of you
know rented Channel like LinkedIn and so
people like what they see they like the
content I generally reuse and repurpose
a lot of the same content on LinkedIn
and go deeper in my newsletter but when
you're running thought leader ads a
great way to kind of give people
somewhere to go to your point back about
the offers if you do have a newsletter
or if you have some additional content
on your website that might be
interesting to look into give them
somewhere to go after that or maybe it's
a situation where hey cool I'm ready I'm
in market and I'm looking for a way to
move forward just make that easy now you
can do with that CTA you can also add a
link in and just go ahead and edit the
post because at this point you know once
Organics organic's taken its uh course
over the last you know usually two three
four days organic your organic post is
kind of done unless it's gone completely
viral then maybe it'll continue to last
for a few weeks
and so by that point you can add a link
at the bottom and just say hey you know
if you're interested in learning more if
you happen to be in Market or if you
want to access this resource or whatever
whatever just throw that link in the
body that way again gives them some
place to go gives you a little bit more
attribution around running thought
leader ads so those would be two things
in terms of um you know CTA plus link
and the post something we do pretty much
with all of our thought leader ads I
love that just to clarify the premium
CTA is like that CTA that's underneath
someone's job title and like where their
profile picture in the feed right so
they can just click on that link in the
feed how does somebody get access to
that premium CTA if they're not familiar
with it so you definitely have to you
have to pay for LinkedIn you have to be
I think what they call I don't know what
the exact definition I've had it for so
long professional sales Navigator or
something like that you got to have the
paid version to have the premium CTA so
it's the only prere once you have that
it's as easy as going to edit profile
and um we can put some instructions in
the notes or something for people uh and
then you'll just go ahead and add the
CTA and then there's a handful of preset
uh CTA buttons so you don't have any
customization there some people will
also do the CTA on their app so you can
do a customized uh link on your profile
so when people go to your your personal
profile link you could do it that way I
just like to have it within the feed
that way for people that aren't going
directly to my profile it's just like
cool like the guy has a newsletter I
didn't know about that now you know and
you don't necessarily have to navigate
all the way to personal profile to do it
so I'm such a cheapo I don't even have
LinkedIn premium I should totally do
that yeah and then you can have the link
in the feed that that makes still
perfect sense I don't even know how much
it cost now to I've had it for years and
years I think at one point it was like
50 bucks a month or something so we're
not talking about huge huge bones maybe
it's more now I'm not even sure I think
I've been grandfathered in like four or
five years ago or something gotcha yeah
that's a that's a great tip I'm curious
uh Jonathan have you done anything
around the selection of who the thought
Leader Post is coming from and kind of
any any insights around that yeah 100%
what's really interesting so we've been
running th leer ads for forever and for
a lot of our clients too we see the same
type of behavior but I'll speak for Omni
Labs real quick and then I'll mention a
client or two uh we actually see
engagement be the highest on
non-employee based campaigns so we
started this influencer campaign
essentially is what we call it and so um
you know for example we had Natalie we
did an audit for novatic and and we kind
of looked over their account at a huge
thing build out a media plan campaign
strategy the whole nine yards and then
she was just nice enough to post
something organically and I saw it I was
like oh that's great like thanks for
saying all those nice things do you mind
if we promote this we're running an
influencer campaign and we're getting a
whole bunch of people that we do great
work for that seem to like us we're
going to get that into that campaign and
so we've just found that those perform
uh much better uh and again I'm strictly
looking this not from a conversion
direct response perspective I'm strictly
looking this at how many people are
engaging with this and so that's what
I'm using as a measure of success to
understand all right cool are people
liking this are they getting value from
it Etc and so that performs honestly
better than any other post even mine uh
Jason my co-founder we've got a lot of
his post promoted as well and uh same
thing goes for a lot of our clients in
some cases I think the key always with
the influenced ones is that clearly they
need to be some type of person with an
audience right and so Natalie I think is
pretty well known in the B2B marketing
space and so her name carries a little
bit of weight and people are very
familiar with her her brand and so I
think if you can get someone like that
and partner up with them whether it be
through a Content collaboration or
offering them something of value like an
audit assessment uh build out a strategy
for them or whatever it is that would
make sense for the specific brand those
types of things work really well so stop
myself there but yeah I love that uh a
good example of this also that I saw in
the the LinkedIn Wilds is from optio so
I'm seeing a bunch of their ads in my
feed and it's just like all these
influencers that they've partnered with
and in this case I think they're like
sponsored influence uh partnership so
they've reached out to these influencers
I'm assuming they paid them some money
and and they're posting on the behalf of
optio and then they're taking that post
and now they're using all of that as
like this first touch to get people
indoctrinated into the brand from like
other people's perspectives and not just
anybody like people with reputation in
the ad world right and and and for SAS
Brands listening I mean I think Clay is
a great example of this like opo as well
they've built literally a Creator
program uh it's on their website I think
it might be like clay Creator or
something but uh the program uses
thought leader ads as a way to promote
the people that are creating awesome
content on how they use clay it's it's
like literally the most beautiful thing
I mean it's not going to work for every
single type of brand but in the way that
Clay is going to market right now they
are absolutely killing it and so now
that they've got all these people that
are excited about not only making money
off of clay by their services they're
also literally saying hey we're going to
help promote you and get your name out
there which guess what gets Clay's name
out there too so it's kind of The Best
of Both Worlds both people win they get
uh they get more engagement on their
post they get more people reaching out
about XYZ workflow they've created and
Clay uh and then clay of course gets a
lot of brand awareness from it and
people talking about them so
literally it's an incredible program I
love clay I mean they've done awes I
completely agree it's it's a master
class like in and taking what we're
talking about right now to like the 10th
degree I think totally that's like yeah
yeah and there's so many other benefits
outside of just the thought leadership
ad format right that that that prodes
yeah so so there's one other uh thing
that kind of goes in relation back to
the premium CTA is just another kind of
tip and thing that we always uh talk
we've got a whole entire like sop on
this that we usually give most of our
clients and so the other thing people
forget about is uh just optimizing your
actual LinkedIn profile and so I think
now when you've moved into the world of
thought leader ads like now your profile
to become the landing page and so I
really just tell people like your
profile now is the landing page sure
they may click the premium CTA sure they
may see the company work with and go
direct I mean all those things are going
to happen just like they do with ads but
now you start to think about your
LinkedIn profile being a place of
conversion or a place of getting more
information about your company and I
don't know how you want to break up all
these tips but there's a whole lot of
different things in here and we can
maybe break them up to get to 10 but you
got your banner number one right just
going from top to bottom Banner key make
sure that we kind of lead either with
some type of outcome capability
messaging basically just kind of what
you do at a high level mine actually
needs to be updated so I don't even not
not sure it's a huge uh point of example
right here I want to get a little more
clear with the headlines some social
proof some other things like that so
we're working on that but Banner really
really important and then obviously you
know photo that's up to date looks like
you uh so when people actually talk to
you you know you look like who you are
uh if you've got a color primary brand
color use that as the background that
way it just kind of again stays on brand
when they see you makes stand out a
little bit more we use pink and so
there's not a lot of Brands right now
though more and more seem seemingly are
using pink but um but that kind of makes
a stand out then you go a little bit
below I mean clearly like headline very
clear what you do doesn't have to be
like I help brands do XYZ but you can do
that route we just do I think mine says
uh paid media for B2B SAS or something
like that just kind of like clearly to
saying like this is the category we play
in this is who we're for
that simple that way people continue to
see that over and over again same thing
for any SAS brand could be interactive
demos for B2B SAS just again using the
interactive demo category uh then below
that then you've got you know the about
about us or the about section in
LinkedIn and so that's where it
shouldn't just be your list of accolades
well I'm a seasoned cyber security
professional with 10 plus years and I
have achieved this and Achieve that like
that's great that's great for looking
for a job but it's not so great for
driving demand for your business and so
it can literally be as simple as maybe
using the The Narrative strategic
narrative for your company like what is
that why do you guys exist like what's
the reason that you guys decided to
start this company even if you're not
the founder it doesn't matter the can
still put something like that there or
it may be something a little bit
different in terms of your POV or how
you approach things or some of the
services you offer any social proof by
names or testimonials or things like
that are helpful to put in that section
Justin Welsh I think has a pretty solid
bio I've uh I used his a while back ago
to write mine I think mine's evolved
since then but another good thing that
we tell of our clients and then of
course like the obvious you know make
sure you actually have your title up to
date and you work at the company you
actually say you're G to work at
otherwise you couldn't even run the ad
anyway so uh there's a couple of things
for you I totally agree there there's
one thing too that on your profile I
have it here that that's awesome is
those images from your posts those
custom images on the bottom that you
have and like you've created like custom
thumbnail those are also really cool too
in terms of like driving uh your ctas
like book a demo and and some of the
other posts you're highlighting that's a
good point yeah yeah I forgot about the
the featured section so uh if that's
what you're alluding to or or to add to
that but yeah there's the featured
section and so yeah if anyone wants to
look me up it is there right now just
Jonathan Bland but uh yeah I just have a
little thumbnail that says um you know
let let us help you build your paid me
to strategy I believe it says right now
and so that way it just keeps it nice
and easy you know it's the core CTA it
doesn't mean everyone's is going to be
ready to go and really want us as their
agency maybe they want someone else
that's okay you know a lot of people
that are good out there uh but that way
just just kind of gives them a clear way
to go back to our website take a look
and take the next step so totally
Jonathan I want to Circle back for a
second on something that you kind of
touched on and I really want to flush
out because this if there's one thing
that I think most
folks like get the most anxiety about
and over stress about and and lose sleep
over this it's measurement and how do
you actually think about optimizing
these thought leader ads and measuring
their effectiveness so maybe this like a
two-part question let's start first with
measuring thought leader ads how do you
think about it right so let's just run
like a practical scenario you've
identified five influencers you're going
to partner with and you know they've got
good profiles they're optimized they're
not catfishing on their pictures you
know they've got good headlines the the
whole
now you're ready to launch the campaigns
the post itself is valuable right
they're actually promoting something
that is
significant how do you now think about
the success of those campaigns this is
going to sound a little wild I guess
because I know for everyone that's like
a performance marketer or you know wants
to go crazy on an attribution this may
sound I guess a little bit controversial
but I mean usually with those types of
campaigns you know we clearly are
tracking conversions if they come in and
someone you know clicks the link and
goes to the website and whatnot but but
in this you know really measurements all
about uh you know reach number one
engagement CTR those are the big things
that we really look at honestly and so
usually what we're doing is even before
that maybe to take one step back before
we get to full-on measurement is um
usually we're trying to drisk even
spending any money on thought leader ads
by looking at the engagement rate off an
organic post and so usually if it's got
anywhere between two and 3% is is pretty
solid I mean 3% plus would be great but
not everyone you know has that much
engagement on their post and so we start
there to then drisk it then we actually
promote the post and then what we'll do
is essentially just kind of like on a
30-day rolling cycle look at all the
thought leader ads that are running and
based on the metrics I just mentioned
decide to rotate some in and out based
on engagement where it is and so some
sometimes you'll see a general fall off
and engagement after time because people
have seen it especially if it's a
smaller audience uh usually for us we're
trying to keep like bigger audiences Max
reach all to people that are in ICP and
so we haven't even maxed out those
campaigns and so I'm not really too
worried about changing up the creative
all the time I know the content
resonated really really well organically
I know it's still resonating um you know
there so that's one thing now for the
conversions clearly you had in Channel
conversion data so we're looking at
things like you know newsletters or um
newsletter signups or or book a calls
for our clients it's you know book a
call or sign up things like that um and
then of course you know uh the sales te
teams asking how did they hear about you
and there's the form on the website with
most of our clients that gives at least
some amount of data because uh we have a
cyber security company working with
right now and interestingly enough the
guy's name that we're promoting is post
onor is named Omar and his name comes up
all the time in that field Omar's posts
Omar's posts Omar's post now do we know
it came directly from a thought leader
ad no not necessarily we don't know that
and so you can clear clearly you know
tie LinkedIn Impressions to account data
if you want to play that game um you
know and use hockey stack or dream data
and those guys but in this case you know
really just looking at understand like
hey when we're running thought leader
ads for this guy like Omar for example
are we seeing his name appear more often
in that field are we getting some in
Channel conversions and then like most
importantly really because we're
targeting a lot of people that are not
necessarily in Market ready to buy or
we're just trying to use it as an
awareness type of strategy we're looking
at as reach CTR engagement so that's
really it I mean people I'd love to hear
what you say on that and maybe you've
got a more scientific answer on that one
but that's how we really do for the
majority of uh the people we work with
no I love it I love the I love the the
the tip within the tip around like
drisking the thought Leader Post by
looking at the organic engagement rates
and then I love the The Benchmark you
gave like between two and 3% 3% is like
on the high end if they have that and
then 2% on the low end that's really
awesome because that's super Tactical
for people that are definitely like more
Quant Orient
you know they they kind of need these
like benchmarks and these Frameworks to
to proceed and then that that's
brilliant and then uh the part around
like reach the engagement the clickr
rate same here you know as well the the
only thing that I would say adding on to
it is like leading conversions are are
super helpful because your primary
conversion for sure in this case might
be booking a demo but that's that's the
most difficult thing on the planet to do
right is to get somebody especially Cole
to just click through book a demo Mo so
by setting up micro conversions and
these little leading signals it can kind
of help you visualize what's going on in
terms of the their experience with your
brand so for example one really small
one is an Engaged visit so somebody that
Scrolls at least 75% of the way through
and stays for a minute on your site
really small conversion piece but now
when you're optimizing your ads and it's
it's you're taking a little bit further
where it's like this thought Leader Post
yes it's getting a better click through
rate but but more importantly it's like
actually leading to more
consumption right which is what we're
after you know and that's kind of like
the proxy you know I love that I think
it makes a lot of sense yeah micro
conversions are 100% a great strategy
especially in situations I know we're
talking about LinkedIn but especially on
Google in some cases when you've got
really high
cpcs and you're looking to get more data
in the channel to understand hey what
keywords are potentially driving the
types of interactions we want for
example to your point time on page or
even I would add like other high Inon
page on the website pricing the get
aemma page case studies uh things like
that and you don't have to make this too
complicated but to your point like the
whole goal is just to get a handful more
pieces of data into it because you know
as you said book a demo is the highest
friction offer that you can lead with I
mean it's it's literally asking someone
to stop what they're doing spend 30 to
60 Minutes on some call with a
salesperson to go in depth on a product
demo that I guess they hope they get
right A lot of times you're not actually
getting a demo on a demo but yeah that's
a for another podcast maybe so yeah th%
and and the another one that I find like
incredible as like a micro conversion
for folks is form abandons so somebody
and it's so easy to set up with with
Google tag managers so somebody that
starts filling out your forms and then
they stop that's also like a great micro
conversion so now like the data starts
to tell you a story of of what's going
on and and really like the way I think
about it and the way I explain it's like
really what we're after is like signs of
like Signs of Life you know okay I I
launched this thing and then now you're
like crickets what's happening right and
like these are all little things that
can give you that confidence in terms of
like Signs of Life like okay wait a
second there's something going on here
and I think those things are so
important too because I mean the longer
sales cycle you have and your high the
higher
ACV it's not going to be a world where
well we launched the thought leader ad
campaign last month any uh any
conversions or pipeline from it it's
like you know wait a minute here we need
to we need to use some other metrics
here yeah not the ones that are always
going to be a sexy to a CEO but they're
the ones that as marketers we have to
utilize those because otherwise you're
going to get in a position where you're
just going to kill all the good programs
that are driving tons of demand and
awareness you're just not using the
right metrics and I think that's why a
lot of people actually end all sorts of
different channels I mean podcasts and
the newsletter how many leads we get
from the newsletter last month I mean
stuff like that these types of questions
are good ones I mean it's not to say we
should just forgo measurement clearly we
should measure what we can measure but
we also just need to realize like
there's a whole lot of stuff that's
going on behind the scenes and to your
point there are some leading indicators
along the way at Le can tell us hey
we're headed the right direction this is
the right content people are getting
value from it and we can look at the
demographics report in LinkedIn and see
that the right accounts the right titles
this is a good thing we've got really
engaged accounts right here so yeah I
think it's uh well
set one of the the quotes that I said in
the recent Google ad courses we launched
was the number one killer of campaigns
is poor
expectations yeah nothing kills more
campaigns than that which is a great
segue to my next question which is how
do you frame expectations like let's
pretend I'm I'm a a new client right and
and I just started working with you I'm
like Jonathan I'm super pumped I love
all your content on LinkedIn you're
incredible uh I can't wait to to work
with your team uh so we just raised a
series a and you know we've got
aggressive pipeline targets and we we
need go from 10 demos a month to 30 you
know classical
situation how do you now set
expectations with me uh in regards to
how we're going to leverage thought
leadership in our strategy to ultimately
get my goal of
demos yeah yeah it's a difficult one I
mean I think that the first place to
start always is we need to do an
assessment of how many demos are we
getting today if they have an active
thought leader ad campaign so that
whatever goal they've put in a
spreadsheet based off of you know hey
here's the next you know growth goal we
need to hit based off of what our VC
says we need to hit that it's based in
some type of reality right and so that's
that's kind of number one right so we
need to just gut check where are we
today and where are we trying to get and
I think the big thing is are we trying
to get there with the same amount of
budget which is usually what everyone
wants to do well if we could just get to
that goal then we we could definitely
open up more budget and the reality is
it just doesn't work that way um not to
say though at the same time that it also
is going to scale linearly it's not a
situation where well it looks like we're
getting I don't know $500 a demo or
something like that let's go ahead and
put another $5,000 to get x amount more
demos I mean it's just it's not going to
work that way either so I think that's
the big thing you got to just look at
historical data from the Daya that you
can see first and foremost and that
could be qualitative and quantitative
doesn't have to be one or the other
ideally it's both if you've got
qualitative data coming from the sales
team and your marketing forms uh the
next thing I like to do just as a game
though with expectation setting around
certain campaigns is just to ask people
like when you see posts on LinkedIn what
is your immediate reaction what are some
of the things that you do when you see
that post because I think it's
interesting and it frames up the The
Thing For Thought leader ads
specifically where people have this
expectation now all of a sudden that
they're spending money on thought leader
ads that demos and signups are going to
start flying in immediately and and I'm
sure they will but directly attributed
maybe not um and so I think it it comes
back to thinking just like how do we buy
as humans and how do we interact with
content and most people will say to that
question oh I don't know I mean I read
the content I kind of move on or I don't
know maybe I I skim it and it was
interesting and I might leave a comment
or a like on it uh things like that I'm
like Okay cool so like what you're
saying though is that you're putting a
lot of you know you're engaging with it
and you're just reading the content but
you're not taking action in a lot of
cases yeah exactly I'm like okay well so
if that's the case then we really need
to kind of think about the type of
campaign that we're going to be running
and so it's literally going to the same
exact example as we just walk through
we're going to be taking your post we're
going to be promoting them and getting
them out in front of your audience to
people that are likely cold that haven't
heard of you before and so what would
you do in that situation if you saw a
post and never heard of the company
before would you immediately book a demo
do you think or would you not and the
answer is always going to be oh no of
course I wouldn't you know not unless I
had a big burning pain or I I was in
Market or we budgeted for this thing or
whatever it may be and I'm like okay
cool well at least we're on that on the
same page there and then it comes back
to saying okay well then what met are we
going to use and then I think it comes
back to your point micro conversions
100% all day long we do a lot of that or
using other just leading indicators in
the channel to understand hey like are
we hitting the right people is the Right
audience engaging is the engagement good
is it staying steady or is it may be bad
and uh maybe we have the wrong targeting
or maybe we just need to change up the
type of content that we're putting out
there it's just not that valuable no one
really cares it's kind of like me too
content something maybe they wrote in
chat GPT just called it a day so I know
those are some ideas and thoughts around
setting expectations so I guess the the
tldr recap is historical review of the
data that you have today just to cut
check where things are today versus the
goal that's one and then just having a
honest conversation and putting them in
the position of what if you saw this
type of thing or what if you consume
this type of content what would you do
typically in that situation I think that
just gets people in the mindset oh right
yeah I'm being a little unrealistic
thinking that we're just going to throw
up this campaign for the first month and
get a whole bunch of people to drive in
I mean we all want that but got to set
realistic expectations back to your
point yeah 100% uh just one final
question here as we're at the top of the
hour do you for somebody listening to
this by the way if you guys haven't
gotten value so far have you been
listening like the this is this has been
a master class for sure so like for for
somebody walking away from this I feel
like they're very clear on like what the
Leer ads are how they can deploy it the
nuances beyond the the thought leader ad
itself on the profile and the optimiz
ations to be made there grounding around
expectations for this last point if
somebody you know they're they're ready
to deploy this do you have some sort of
timeline that you usually like frame
people around we like hey it's going to
take on average X days like to really
invest in this program or anything
around that or kind of how do you gear
those
conversations that one's tough because I
don't think there's really a solid black
and white answer I mean the the way with
some using some data would be to look at
sales cycle l
um to start there and then use that as
somewhat of a predictor of when we could
expect results because there's always a
lag behind marketing spend and so you
could certainly look at that but the
reality is that you know there's this
messy Middle where people are moving
themselves in market and out of Market
that's just really hard to lock down and
so you could do exercises where you try
to size the amount of people that are in
market and so maybe some of you have
heard of the 955 rule it's been for
whatever reason going around and around
and around on LinkedIn I think a lot of
people don't really understand actually
where it comes from but it came from joh
raws back a handful of years he's a
professor at the arburg bass Institute
and so uh he basically came up with this
heuristic to judge how many people are
in Market versus out of market and so
the idea is that if you know your inner
uh category purchase time right like how
often do you buy a category then you can
back into some very simple math to say
okay we know that at any given time
based on the size of our ICP the amount
of accounts that are there x amount of
accounts are in market and so between
sales cycle and understanding how long
it takes people to buy or go through a
whole deal State uh deal cycle with you
and and using a little bit information
on how many people could actually be in
Market you can get to an estimate of
what it might look like in terms of
conversions or accounts that you might
be able to hit that are in Market that's
about the best you can do in my opinion
if anyone has a magic solution to this
I'd love to hear it I don't think there
there is I think all these things are
are used as as guidelines and you know
predictors of the future to some degree
you know the rest of it is is again that
messy middle Google's Think Tank wrote a
whole entire article did a bunch of
research on this it's like what the
article called if you type in Google
messy middle you'll find it and there's
a whole bunch of research on there that
walks through this exact thing where
it's not a binary like put ad in people
move in market and then they buy your
stuff it just doesn't work that way so
anyway sales cycle and you know that 955
Rule and uh trying to calculate that
would be kind of two ways to to get to
An Answer yeah I think that was a
perfect answer because really what I
wanted to get at for everyone and draw
it out was like there's so many factors
here outside your control you know and
and there is no Silver Bullet and it's
like you're just to sum everything up
you're taking a format and you can apply
this format into your strategy to reap
you know better engagement rates cost
Etc because it's so native to the
platform but all of these principles
still apply right like you have your own
sales cycle links you have your own
constraints as a business you have
things that your audience is favor and
they don't in terms of the content they
respond to so it's like keeping all this
stuff into consideration when you do
craft your strategy and then you decide
hey I'm gonna use this as a thought
Leader Post as a part of the the greater
hole and connect it all together yeah I
I think it's just on one last point on
this and we can wrap but um you know I
think the important thing with anything
is you got you got to have the
short-term the long term in mind clearly
everyone knows that so the message of it
just takes time which a lot of people
love to say and Linkedin and marketers
do sometimes I I've even probably been
guilty of saying it I'm sure at some
point isn't really a good message to
someone who's spending tens of thousands
or hundreds of thousands of dollars like
it just takes time ain't going to cut it
so we can't say that there has to be
more of a connection back to either some
of those leading indicators and how they
affect Downstream metrics even if it's
just correlation ideally maybe you get
in the world of causation using uh you
know mix modeling tools and stuff like
that but that's for much bigger
companies in terms of um the amount of
data needed to do that type of thing but
I think uh with thought leader ads the
final point is um thought leader ads are
not in my opinion meant to be a direct
response type of offer or motion unless
we're talking about something like a
framework or a template or a guide or
something like that you're giving away
the whole point of thought leader ads is
to get your POV your narrative and how
you do what you do out there in the
world so making sure that you connect
the dots back to those key buying
triggers or situations that people say
hey I have a brand awareness problem I
need some help from omnilab or I have a
lead quality issue I'm getting lots of
bad leads into my funnel how do I
potentially improve that those are
situations that you know agencies and
certainly us want to come up and be top
of mind for so that we could potentially
solve those things and so the same thing
is True For Thought leader ads and using
those things as longer term brand plays
where you've got a direct line of
communication because again it's coming
from you like a person it's not coming
from your company anymore so now you can
have interactive conversations in the
comments section you can reach other
people on DMS it's very different type
of format that requires a little bit of
work that was actually probably one
point we should get into later on
another podcast with commenting and
staying up on it it's not like you just
put uh put out the post and call it a
day right you know you gotta stay with
it so I love it so many awesome tips
just to do a quick recap for all the
listeners we started off talking about
thought leader ads are just remember at
the end of the day it's a sponsored post
so you're taking somebody's organic
content and you're guaranteeing
Distribution on the back of it by
promoting it number two is you want to
make sure the content that you are
investing dollars in is that it connects
to the product like I love that that
reference uh you want to draw the dotted
line like Jonathan said from what is
being said to the core product that
you're selling number three is you want
to create content that people would be
willing to purchase that you could
charge money for Like the quote I love
to use here is like just because it's
free doesn't mean you don't have to sell
it you know it and I know this better
than anyone I think after like creating
at conversion having free courses taught
by legit practitioners I cannot tell you
like the number one thing is like people
don't believe it's free you know and
it's like it takes so much work to get
people to take action so just because
it's free doesn't mean have to sell it
create content people are willing to
charge for um add premium ctas don't be
cheap like me pay for the LinkedIn
premium and add a premium CTA so that
you can take advantage of that
additional traffic the next one is to to
uh test influencer campaigns really lean
into non-employees if you have that at
disposal it's very powerful the next one
was to optimize your LinkedIn profile
there's like eight tips underneath this
one big tip so we'll have it in the show
notes for you but make sure your
LinkedIn profile I love the way you
framed it John you said your LinkedIn
profile is your landing page and that's
such a great frame of mind to have when
you're thinking about uh the thought
leader ad because they can click on your
Prof on your picture and then dive into
your profile and dive further and figure
out who you are the next one was around
measurement when you're thinking about
optimizing these campaigns really want
to be focusing on his reach engagement
rates self-reported attribution also you
want to make sure you're looking at the
organic post and how is it doing between
that two to 3% Benchmark I love that and
then uh make sure you're setting up
micro conversions to give you these
signs of life and understanding okay am
I actually moving in the right direction
I always say like if you're not tracking
you know there's a very fine line
between the difference like an investor
and a gambler you know and in the
context of ads it's like when you don't
have those micr conversions you don't
have a basic thesis of like what success
looks like then you're just gambling
right and at the end of the day like
we're we're here to invest and and get
Returns on our investment next up in
terms of expectation was to make sure
you give yourself a real reality check
and align by reviewing the data on the
quantitative and the qualitative side in
terms of what you're hearing and then I
love this put yourself in the buyer's
shoes
it's amazing like what a like reality
check you know what I mean like how do
you use LinkedIn how do you navigate and
like interact with content that you come
across I think we lose that empathy for
the user and that's that's an incredible
way to kind of give somebody some
perspective like you're not very
different from them in terms of your
behavior right um and then finally
number 10 thought leader ads is the core
strength of it it's not a direct
response format it's really used for
awareness and spreading your point of
view and your your narrative and
allowing you to reach people and engage
with them Jonathan this was awesome if
people want to connect with you where
can they find you easiest plac is
LinkedIn get me on LinkedIn Jonathan
Bland look me up DM me happy to chat
about thought leader ads in more detail
but that's s sweet thank you so much for
being here if you guys aren't following
the channel or subscribed definitely
make sure to connect with Jonathan on
LinkedIn And subscribe to us here on
YouTube we'll see you on the next one